Here is a quick report on Jose Luis’s trip to Boston and Lynn. (My thoughts
only, although Jose Luis and I talked about some of this.) Getting it out quick
with the thought that something may be of use to others in the tour.

Jose Luis spoke to 87 people in Boston in a whirlwind 4 talks in 36 hours. He
did a really excellent job. Spoke well and well organized, packed in a lot of
information, was approachable and frank in assessment of some weaknesses or
compromises made by AMLO, but communicated the excitement of real advances for
the Mexican people. And he adjusted on the fly to three very different
audiences. This is a grueling trip for him, and we need to make sure we take
care of him and get him some rest and breaks.

The first talk was right off the plane at 5:30 at UMass Boston, sponsored by
the Labor Resource Center and two other UMass Institutes. 37 people. I was
somewhat disappointed in the audience, but I seem to be the only one who was.
Big enough to feel like a decent crowd, but I had hoped for more labor folks.
There was a handful, but most attendees were from a management class and labor
studies students, with maybe 8 labor people, a couple from the community and
professors. Jose Luis did a full ppt., maybe 45 minutes, very well received and
good thoughtful questions.

The next morning he spoke at two classes focused on racism at Salem State
University by Avi Chomsky. Thirty-two people combined. All but maybe a half
dozen were immigrants or the children of recent immigrants (Haiti, Dominican
Republic, Honduras, Albania, Thailand, Guatemala). Avi showed a short film
about indigenous children dying at the border in custody, and Jose Luis used
the clip from his ppt of the AMLO speech to a half million people at a rally in
Mexico City focusing on mass support for sovereignty. The first year students
knew next to nothing about what was happening in Central and South America, but
were clearly engaged and asked good questions; Avi organized them in small
groups. One of the students came to my house that night off the talk and may
get involved with us.

Friday evening he met with 17 community activists from the New Lynn Coalition
and labor leaders and activists at my house in Lynn. This was my personal
favorite since we could have questions from each person and good discussion. It
was particularly notable how inspirational the talk was to people from
Guatemala, Peru, DR and Guatemala, who want the same for their countries. Union
folks got food answers to questions about the Mexican military, the “drug war”,
etc.

It was striking, although I should not have been surprised, how little people
know about what is happening in Mexico – Spanish and English language stations
here focus almost entirely on the cartels and the border, often conflating the
two. Even the issue of the border, which is so big, is seen more as a domestic
issue here than one of relations with Mexico. And the notion of invading Mexico
seems far away and not real, if people even heard about it. This is what we are
dealing with, at least i the Northeast. I felt like we were planting seeds on
good earth – great potential but significant growth lies down the road.

Some of the issues that surfaced that Jose Luis identified that we need to
prepare for:

1. **What is the Mexican government doing about drugs?**

   The “abrazos” approach of AMLO in Mexico doesn’t translate too well to US
   audiences! Explaining that we need to get to the source of consumption
   helps, but needs a punchy presentation. Most people in our audiences know
   that folks who have addictions or dependencies are going to get drugs
   somewhere. The story of how fentanyl used to come directly from China and
   now comes through Mexico – and will always come from somewhere when there is
   such a demand in the US- was helpful, but hard to tell quickly. The US as
   the source of guns and the efforts of the Mexican government to keep them
   out of Mexico was important. One person at UMass suggested that “Mexico
   should invade the US to stop the consumption of drugs and export of guns!”

2. **What should we do about immigration and the border?**

   "Can the US just take in everyone?” It helped to explain that the countries
   which are losing the most people to the US were those who have suffered from
   US policies -- invasions of Guatemala and Haiti, sanctions which hurts
   working class folks in Venezuela, etc. But a short term answer was hard to
   figure out and articulate.

3. Jose Luis did a good job explaining that certain compromises are being made
   for understandable reasons, like giving the military the funds they want if
   they leave Morena alone, and also that there are shortcoming in the Morena’s
   approach to immigration and reducing the work week, but that social pressure
   from below needs to continue to be built. All the while making it clear that
   MSP a) is supportive of Morena and b) is a long term project to build ties
   with the Mexican people and defend Mexican sovereignty including their right
   to use their natural wealth in things like oil and lithium for the benefits
   of their peoples: sovereignty!

4. I thought the agitation we did opposing intervention in Mexico went over
   well and it was effective and important to draw people’s attention to that.
   As Jose Luis put it, “the possibility that that will happen is small – but it
   is not zero.” As a local union president responded, “If the motherfuckers
   invade Mexico, we got your back!”

5. One of the most powerful parts of Jose Luis’s presentation was explaining
   the massive support for Morena and AMLO and the material benefits Mexican
   working class people had gained since AMLO was elected, in 5 short years:
   social security type benefits for seniors, money to support students (while
   they enjoy their free education), new universities built, re-investing in
   public health care, upgrading public parks, 9 million people lifted out of
   poverty, etc. People (including me) knew almost nothing about this, and it
   was inspirational.

We were not as effective as we could have been in signing people up for the
newsletter and having literature at the events. At my house we passed around a
sign up sheet and got 13 more people to ask for the newsletter, but at UMass we
just asked people to sign up but did not collect names, which was not as
effective. A printed sign up sheet would be best to circulate at each event. At
the UMass event we had some literature about MSP and a newsletter, but not at
the other events.

Overall I was pleased with our effort and impact. I think we planted the seeds
as I mentioned, and we may be able to take some steps in building MSP off this
– a board of influentionals and activists, fund-raising for staff, ideas for
the content of the new website, or whatever direction you decide is possible
after this. Thanks everyone for all your work.

```
Jeff Crosby
Saturday, October 14, 2023
```
