# Happy mid-summer!

We are reaching out to you, specifically, because you have been supportive of
the Mexico Solidarity Project (MSP). We have started planning an exciting US
Tour for this fall just as elections season is upon us but we need your advice
and possible participation on a zoom call this Sunday morning.

A member of the Project in Mexico, Jose Luis Granados Ceja, as a journalist (
see attached biography), can bring information and analysis of what the current
situation is there and could facilitate discussions in your own organizations
and communities around solidarity. Five East Coast cities that had planned
events for a 2020 tour had to postpone them due to Covid. We are hoping to
revive those plans ( and people contacts ) and add a West Coast leg to the 2023
Tour.

This could be a chance to build left unity in your area, connect with
communities, work with labor and possibly electoral contributions as needed in
the host cities. The lessons that we can learn from the social movement
activists in Mexico can have strategic importance to us in the transformational
agenda that we are all working on.

We are asking YOU to join a short zoom call on Sunday, July 23rd at 11;00 AM
EST to hear from Jose Luis himself and let us talk with you about what it could
mean to host a public event or meeting around the information that he and the
MSP share. Places that have hosted previous tours have used these spaces to
build further relationships and actions; each city using this as a tool for
their own work.

You are on our shortlist of contacts and in order to support your work, we need
to know whether to keep you on our list or move on to someone else- that you
could recommend- that would be able to work with us and others to host a stop
on this exciting tour. We need you or someone you suggest/recruit to join on
Sunday to talk about how to get this to happen in your area.

Please rsvp to this email or call one of us as soon as possible to confirm that
you (or your designee) is available to explore if and how your city could host
a stop on this tour. We will send a zoom link and more tour specifics then.

## Your Tour Planning Committee:

Betty Forrester 323-605-1920<br>
Jeff Elkner, 240-406-2906 (SMS), jelkner@protonmail.com<br>
Cameron Barron, 793-307-7396
